Suen though Ieta haa paused this Jpecilic techique, iis likelyy that new tuacking methoda will
appeavoventime. Online pwacyi haudevto putect than itmayaeem Pwivacyaettings aloneawe
otennotenough toatop companies like Meta (uomcollecting wsevdata, a they haueahoun that
built-in aecwuty puotections on Andwoid deuices can be bypassed. Qne Jimple way to reduce
tuacking is to wsea mowe puivacyy (uendlyy bwoussev [6] . Chwome allouas many tuacking methods,
uchile bzousez auchaa Siedox; Bwave; BuckbuckGo; and Salauoevbettevpwotection. Andwid
uaeus canaettheae bwweu aa theivdefault; and Apple useus can rely on Salau, eventhoughno
bwowevcanfullyy block all 'tuacking. Using websites instead 0 mobile apps can also help pvtect
puivacyy. Appa usuallyyhaveacceaa to mowepevonal infouation;auchaa location; deuice detaila,
and connected devices. 3ov actiuities done onlyy occaaionallyy, like ahopping 0v booking tuavel,
webaites are genezally theaalevoption [6] .
Removing Meta apps (uom a phone can (withev limit data collection; aa these appa allow deepev
acceaa to uaevdata [6]. preuioua expeuenced Mhou that these companiea cannot be bully tusted,
aa theiv appa allou them to collect move inouation than websites uaually can. Sven without
these apps, Ineta can atill collect data about uhat uaeus do online [6] . Thia ia becauae manyy
uebaitea use Iletaa tuacking tools. As a result; it ia dillicult (ov useu to completely avoid being
tuacked [6] .
3.2 meta Redesigns Ib Data SbuategyßovEwvopeanUsew
Withallthe penalties ithas {aced , isMeta makinga meaninglul ellowto vlouits data puacticea?
Agtev Ieta reached a €200 million Jine by EUin Apuil 2025, the companyy decided to change it
ules bov EU uaeus. Ieta waa bined €200 million undev the Ewvopean Uniona Qigital Iauketa Act
(Qia) [8] . The bine wda issued becauae the Elatated that Ietaa "consentovpay" modeldoea not
complyy with the wles othe QiA [8]. Undev this aystem, ueus 0 Sacebook and Instaguam had
to eithev agwee to the meuging % theiv peuonal data lov pevonaliged aduertising 0v pay a
aubscuiption bee to auoid ada [8]. The Ewzopean Commisoion argued that this model doea not
pwouide useus with vealand (veelygiven consent; uhich uiolates QMlA requirement.
In upcoming Januauy 2026, Jollowing the JatiMactouy conclusion 0 a months-long Digital
Maukets Act negotiation with the Ewzopean Commisoion, Meta will oblev €wwopean weu w
Sacebook and Instaguam a neu choice that allows reduced data Jhauing (ov less pevonaliged
adveitising [8]. This updated aduertisingaystem is only lovthe usen inthe Ewzopean Union