2. Meta’s Al-Driven Data-Collection.and. Profiling

2:1 How Meta Officially Stores User Data

and location data when enabled. These data types help Meta understand how its services are used a ye they work smoothly

The update also aims to rivacy practices easier to unde a explains that no new data collection methods are being introduced

but existing ones are deseribed more clearly. Users are informed ab i rights, how their iiformation may be shared, and how t

control their privacy through av

2.2 Controversies Over Meta's Sacret’Data' Collection

ough Meta explains its data collection procedures, as de
2018) the Guardian reported that the'dita analytics firm Cambridge ubich with Donald Trump

campaign, harvested miltons of Facebook profiles without jems that could influence voter behaviour [3]. The data wa!
taken in early 2014 through a researches’s app and was used to bul cal profiles of individual users. This information was then usedto
t dvertisements designed to influenc 5 batlot box {3}
Chr e. a former employee of Cambridge Analytica, reve: profiles of users
order to influence their {3}: He explained that this 6a d through @ resea app and used to predict and target

people based on their emotions and behaviour. Internal Facebook document howed that by late 2015, the compaty was aware that large

amounts of user data had been collected improperly, but users Were not clearly d and the data was not fully protected

After the misuse became public, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica a researcher involved. However, at the time the issue w
scovered, Facebock initially minimized the of the situation and claimed the data collection followed normal procedures [3]. In reality,

haring the data with third parties v Facebook's own rules, which raised concerns about how well the company controlled access to user

information [3

Concerns about Meta’s data practices continued in later nbser 2022, Meta was fined €265 million by the Irish Data Prote
Commission after an investigation found that Faceb es, such us search functions and contact importer ts
sufficient privacy’ safeguards [4]. These features made it, possible for large- amounts of personally identifiable inf
numbers, and email addresses of hundreds of millions of users to be collected and exposed through data scrapin
sted GDPR Article 25, which requires data protection by design and by defauii, betause it failed to build

{6 prevent misuse of user data [4

