Even though Mela haa paused thir specific technique, iis likely that new tracking metheds will
appearover tine, Quline priviicy » hardevte protect than it may seem. Privacy sellings alone are
often uot enough lo stop companies tike Meta from collecting wer data, as they have sliown that
built-in security protections or Android devices can be bypassed. One simple way te reduce
hacking 0. le we ad mere puvacy fiendly brauser [6]. Chrome allows many tracking metheds,
while bowen such aa Firejox, Brave, DuckDuckGe, and Gapaiietfper better protection. Android.
we canget these bowser w their default, and Apple wew.can ely on Gapau, even though ne
bwusercan fully block alt hacking. Using websites inslead of mobile apps can-abe help protect
puvacy. Apps wually have access lo meve pewenal injoeunation, suctv as location, device detaits,
and connected devices, For activities done only occasionally, like shopping et beeking travel,
websites are generally the sageroption [6].

Removing Meta apps from a phone can further limit data collection, as there apps allow deeper
access to wer data (6). Previous experiences show that thérse companies cannet be jully busted,
aa their apps allow them lo collect more infornation than websites usually can. Even without
Mere apps; Meta can still collect data about what iew do online [6]. This id becauwe many
websites we Meta’s tacking tools. Ard vesult, it ix difficult jor usew lo complelely avid being
tracked (6),

3.2 Mela Redesigns Tle Vata Glrategy jor European Uses

With allthe penalties ithas paced, is Mela making a meaningful effort le végoum ils data practices?
After Meta reached a €200 million fire by Ell in April 2025, the company, decided to change i
ruler forEl wer. Meta war fined €200 million under the Ecropean Union's Digital Markel Act
(OMA) [5]. The fie waa aaued because the Ell atated that Meta’s “consent or pay” model does not
comply with the uiles of the DMA [8]. Under this system, wew of Facebook and Tnstagram had
lo either agree to the merging of their pewonal dala for pewonaliged.advertaing ov pay a
subscription fee te aveid ads [8], The European Commision cigued that thir model deer not

Provide wew with waland jeely gwen consent, which violates DINA equitemenb.

Tn upcoming January 2026, jollowing the satiopactory conckwion of a montha-long Digital
Marke, Act negotiation with the. European Cammosion, Meta. will offer Emopean Wew ein
Facebook-and Tnataguam a new cheice that allows reduced data sharing jer leas pewonaliged
advertising (8). This updated advertising system @ only forthe wer in the Eurepean Union.

