Wasik Mahir

UCO: 579650
Exchange Student of Faculty of informatics.

Smart Everything

Uphill battle - Threats posed by Alto online privacy: Is there hope for
having any control over one’s online data trail, when faced by even
better Al profiling tools?

1. Introduction

Every time'a person scrolls through social media, searches the web, or buys a product online, data
is quietly created-and recorded. Behind these everyday actions, artificial intelligence systems are
constantly at work, analysing behaviour and turning digital traces into detailed user profiles. The
growing dependence on artificial intelligence has taken on an increasingly important role in the
digital environment. Online activities such as browsing websites, using social media, and making
online purchases generate large amounts of petsonal data. Al-systems. are ‘able to-analyse this
data and create detailed profiles about individuals, often predicting their preferences, behaviour,
or interests,-These profiling practices are usually invisible to users, who may not be fully-aware of
how much data is collected or how it is processed.-As Al technology becomes more advanced,
concerns about the loss of online privacy and personal control have grown significantly. Therefore,
the key research question guiding this essay is: Is there hope for having any control_over one’s
online data trail, when faced by even better Al profiling tools?

This essay will examine how major platforms use artificial intelligence driven data collection and
profiling techniques to track, predict user behavior and generate revenue through the use of user
data. To keep the essay concise, the analysis will only focus on a large company: Meta. It will begin
by outlining How Meta’s data storage policy works, beyond their official policy how Meta secretly
stores’user data, the algorithms and techniques they have been using secretly for a:long time,
and how users can protect themselves. In addition, the essay will examine how the law currently
regulates Meta’s data collection practices and the ways in which they may violate laws such as
the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). By analyzing these
cases, the essay aims to answer two subsidiary questions such as: (1) How do Meta’s Al-driven
data tracking and profiling practices threaten online privacy and weaken users’ control over their
online data trail? (2) To what extent do EU data protection laws and enforcement actions provide
realistic limits on these privacy threats?

