This sstue 15 not mtd co Meta wane’ Many techndogy ounpaates tacudtag apple and Opendl reg on user data te develop end tnprave neve AL
sustems. ln-o compettitve.digitG! market, tompaotes fee! pressured to adopt advonced date: driven tectoologtes tb order to survive, H ope cainpang
totroduces 0 pawerte’ AL system, other are 'tkely to foow soooer or later: # well-known ed $5 halts, which fatled Yo adapt to the rise of
aAntrotd smartphones and eventunl’y hast tts paittion fo the market, Stator, tudlea's technology compantes view dave cal'ectton and A tretning os
necessary for survtvol, even when té ratses sertoas connec, about privacy cad wer cpnteo!, 4

This catses on tmphrtant question: are ue bendy fatlovtng AY? In many vous. the ansver appecrs to be yes. Even though #1 techoalogy seems high'g
efgeaing add dopamtng-bonsting, és sil harmfe!. The fture 's even more dangerous. Af profiling and data tracking are expected to grow even
further making te futore of digtta! me more conceratng. fo this content, (¢ 15 tmpartant to mention Meta’s recent tanwvotten Enown as Soy
h bettt- tf cod atow useds to take photos, record cudlo, and tofenacé with Meta

fs hes eset rake seTlous privdig conens. They-con eos!ly record acdto and video of people neusby srithout,
ther aiaic Behgagh there 1s a smal! LE) light. to show vrhen the camerd Is on, many crittes say It's tu0 easy Ze mess; menntag most pedp'e mag
ak realize they eee being recarded, The conwern is not only Ghout recatding, bet else about hour this date cas be sabt to Al oystem, that analyse
conversctlons, recigntie oblects, ane !ink information to cole data. These concerns are espactal’y sign'fieant tn the European inten, where stricter
Fules apply to the GIP. Grien Meta's past privecy vtelations. the Imroduction of such technotegtes ratses sertous questions choot bev’ far dota-érisen
2) sqstems vt"! go endl what thts means for future prtvecy protection.

4. Coneluston

‘To van up the questions tntreduced 10 dhe begining of the essay, the extdence ood argurienis prepeated in this essay address then’ directs,

From-the cnaiysts, 1f is clea thad Yeta’s Al-driven data iecking end profilieg: practices: sign'flcantly threnten oltre pricey by reducts
voreness cod conéro! over how dhete personc! date ts cafected and anciyses édvouced profiting two's operate largely in the hackground,
arfhatt fee tediy'dua's tounders Stand oc meoningfisly ‘ofueoce thet caliee date tral. .

Astor the seeond giritton, de cuatysts of i dean protection lows shoty aut Fromevverts such 05 the? end the Digi ta: Morkets Act do ploce
temportant tega' limts as hese practise’ chrough strict consent requirements, transpareney ob! gations, ond substantia! financto! penalties, Honvever,
while these aes offer a tee! of protectlon aad hove forced compantes fo adiust some nf thelr data staategtes. wiser contra! remains limited and
frag!te tn the fave of tncreastng’y powerful Al proftling fechnolagtes. fo my optofan. compantes should be transparent about which user
data they collect, where and why this dafa.'s used, how long 1£ 1s stored, and howe 1s procested, Inadttlan, since Earopean laws are
different. companies should adapt thelr platferms to follow each country’s laws. Beyond thts, thefe shou!d be-new regulations that
early deftne which user data compat are allowed fo use tor thetr Al systems or algortthins, These rules should exist oyistde af
company poltctes and be controlled by lay? 0 tha viofattans cam be properly ident! af and pantshed. Es clear that pr¥acy fs becomtng
- ‘vweaker day by day due éo the rapld-use of AL Late alone canine fully stop thts trend unless users from al countrles are wHling-to tote

acon and demand stronger" protection. however. os.vve-a!l know, most users are unlikely to take. such actton or stap.ustng these.
technologies. 05 they cunttove te enioy the bene tes of al while neglecting hove thelr data ts hetng:stulen ‘and used,

