Ti Way: 2023, another madewt happened again wath [reliud’s Data Protcetion Comission (DPC). The DPC
fined Meta €12 billion for sshaudimg the personal data of Europea users, warkaug the largest perlalty ever
suder the Els Geveral Pata Protechon Regulation (QDFR) (5). The caine after a ly iiveshgation into
how te company transferred uber data froin the EU to the United States of Ameria without adequate
safeguards, despite 4 Eivopean: Court of Juste rrilug requruig strong protections for suc transfers (5), Tae
Dre-found that era contained to send large voles of Faceveok users’ persoiial data to Mie USA on the basis
of Standard contractual dauses (SCC9] that da vot sufficiently protect muividials’ privacy rights, expos
that data to poten hal access v4 US mrteligence agencies. Ber these dauses faicd to vacct GPPR statards,
the requiator concluded taat Meta was i breach of Artic 4@(1) of the GDPR (181, whieh governs secure
witematonal data transfers (5]. Also th Cetover 2024, Meta was fined €41 iillion ly He PPC again for storing,

soe Facebook users’ passwords in plan: text \erthin irs arterial systems, This practic dif vot meet bas

Security standards, which require passwords to be protected asiug cryptographic methods [5].

2.3 Meta’s Silent Data Harvesting Aigoritvimic Practices Explained

Durwig the, carly development of Meta’s advertising system, Meta mtrodiced a small trockg script known as
the “Weta pixel” (7). This techmologgrs designed to apser've and analyec user ’chiavior, imomrtoray bow Visitors ”
havigate weesites, mteract with content, and respond fo advertisements, In dom so, it can also traugint
inghiky seustwve mformation, sul as finannal data froin tax fing-platforms er medal details from healtheore
swebsites; dvettly ato Me ta’s strveillance based advertising ceosystem (71.

Tu addnon, Meta’s.Arackmg pixel was secretly sendug data te Weta’s own Audrod apes a explortny localities
_4 feature tended for developer restug (7). Tas bypassed Andrerd’s app sandboumg, waichiss designed to
prevent apes from commuanitahug wth cach other and eveated a bndden data chawuel between molnte browsers
and Meta apps,

Ak the same tine, weta-attempts to commert data’ from Tavonynons” welste visrtors to real Meta vser
Aéfounts by using sandals such as TP addresses and fookwes (7). Weta made tis identfication wach eager by
studing data direc ty froin its tradang pixel te Meta’s own ps, where dsers were alecady legged i, This meant
that evén usérs who blocked or deleted conkses, ased a VPN to hide their TP? address, or browsed itr weoguito
mode Could still be.xtevitified (7), One Hs prachre was pubhely revealed, Meta gickly padsed the Fechnieite andl
stated tat thed were m discussions with Google about “a potential amstommniuicahon regarding the appteatton
of there poleies” (7).

> 3, Law, Data Protection, and the Path Forward

3A Wat users Can Do to Reduce Data Tracking

