In May 2023, another icident happened dgain with Ireland's Data Protection Commission (DpC). The DPc
fined meta e:2 billion for mishanding the personal data of Enropcan asors, marking the largest penalty ever.
under the El's General Data Protection Regulation (GDpR) [5]. The fine came after a long investigation into
hove the company transferred aser data from the Eu to: the Uinited States of America without adeguate
safeguards despite a Earapean Court of Justice ruling requiring strong protections for such transfers [5]. The
DPC found that Meta contincied to sond large volumes of Facebook users personal data to tho USA on the basis
of standard contractual dlauses (secs) that did not sufficienthy protect individuals privaby rights, exposing.
that data to potential access by us intelligence agencies. Berause these clauses failed to meet GDpR standards.
the regulator covicluded that Mota was in breach of Article A6l1) of the GDPR [18], which governs secure
international data transfers (5]. Also in October 2024, Meta was fined e91 million by the DpC again for storing.
some. Facebook asers" passwonds in plain text within its intonnal systems. This practice did not meet basic
security standards, which reguire passwords to be proteoted insing cryptographic inethods (5].
2.3 Mota's Silent Data Harvesting Algorithmic Practices Explained
During the carly developunent of Meta's advertising sys tem, Meta introdaced a simall tracking soript Enovon as
the "Meta pixel (7I, This techmology is desiguied to.obsorve and analyee user behavior, movitoring how visitors
wavigate websites, interact varth content, and respond to advertiserents. In doing so, it can also fransmit
highly sensitive information, such as financial:data from tax filing platforms or medical details from healtheare
websitos, directly into Meta's surveillante-based advertising ecosystem [7].
In addition, Mota's tracking pixel was secretly sonding data to Meta's owin Android apps by exploiting localhost,
a feature intended for developer testing [7]. This bypassed Android's app sandboxing, which is designed to
prevent apps from commuinicating wlth each other and created a hidden data channel between mobile browsers
and metaapps
At the saime fime, mota-attempts to connect data from. "anonymous" website visttors to real Meta user
accounts by usigr signals such as Ip addresses and cookies:[7] meta made this identification maich easier by
sending daita directly from its tracking pixel to Meta's own apps, where users were already logged in. This meaint
that even users Who blocked or deleted cookies, used a VPN to hide their Ip address: or browsed in incognito
mode could stillibe identified [7]. Once this practice was publicly revealed, Meta duickly paused the techntque and
stated that they were inrdiscussions with Google about "a potential miscommunication regarding the applicafion
of their policies" [7]
3. Law, Data Protection, and the Path Forward
3.1 What Users Can Do to Reduce Data Tracking